OK.
Alison Lurie, number one.
Let's start with the wonderful title, The Last Resort.
It seems to have a number of textures.
I try to have titles like that.
I look for them, and sometimes I find them.
And did you title the book after you'd written it?
Oh, yes.
Does that always happen with you?
Mostly it does, yes.
Boyd could almost even go to another level.
Do you feel that... You're ten years between novels, I guess.
Everyone says that, but they forget that there was a book of short stories between... In 95, I think it was.
Is this the last resort novel for you, I guess, as well?
Well, I can't tell, of course.
How can you know?
Why do you think it was 10 years between humbles?
I think I became interested in other projects.
I wrote articles.
I took jobs teaching.
And this book took me quite a while.
Can you talk a little bit about the premise?
I did a search, and there were some wonderful interviews with you, by the way, in the British press.
That's true.
There were some nice people there.
I found them last night at LexisNexis.
You can find those things.
I didn't know that.
I have all of them today.
Have you seen them yet?
Most of them I probably have.
If I have copies, I'd be happy to send them to you.
No, no.
If I haven't seen any of them, they'll come in the mail from my English publisher.
There's a service that I buy.
It's called LexisNexis.
Oh, yes.
And it searches just about every... This is good.
So you don't have to search yourself.
It just takes, does it and brings it to you.
Well, I punch you in Alice and Laurie.
I see.
And I say English magazines, English newspapers.
I can focus to the New York Times or the Washington Post or the L.A.
Times.
I see.
That's good.
I can specify the years.
I went back on you to 1980, for instance.
Found some very interesting interviews you did with the Washington Post.
Which I've probably completely forgotten.
Yeah.
It's interesting to see how the interviews... You haven't changed that much, I have to say, over the years.
I find the consistency, which is really... I guess not.
In one of those interviews with the British press, you were reminded of a quote, and you said, I hope I didn't say that, but I probably did.
Yeah, yeah.
I brought up the British press.
You're an enormously popular writer.
I am.
I'm more popular there than I am here.
And do you have an exploration for that, or why do you suppose that is?
I think it's because I was brought up on British fiction, and when I was in college,
I read British fiction.
I was a history and literature major.
And at that point, you didn't study many American women writers.
The only American woman writer that was in the canon was Emily Dickinson.
And therefore, but lots of British women writers were read.
And I read them, and I think that my style and my tone were maybe formed through my reading because this was my focus.
So I think that what's happened, and I know I've said this before, is that I write about somewhat exotic subjects in a British style.
That is not very exotic, but American subjects.
And this makes me popular there because my manner is familiar and my material is new.
But here I'm writing about more familiar material in a manner that's unfamiliar.
So I think it's harder for American readers to get into cahoots with what I'm doing.
That's my explanation.
But you definitely consider yourself
An American writer writing in American traditions?
Oh, well, sure.
I have to be an American writer because I'm an American and I'm not an expatriate.
This is where I live and where my connections are.
But you also feel that you emerge from American traditions, literary traditions.
Well, only peripherally because the American tradition in fiction is of men struggling with
with nature, with other men, or with large animals.
And there isn't really a tradition of American women's writing till you get to Edith Fortin and Willa Cather.
And both of those are writers I came to late in life.
So I can't say that my writing comes out of
American writing.
Do you see, and I think this is a pertinent question for you, because a number of your characters appear in different... That's true.
You bring them back.
And it does seem, they do seem to grow.
I can't say I've read all of your books, but they do seem to grow in real time, too, don't they?
Yes, they do.
I have, you know, I have records on them, so I... Oh, you do?
Oh, sure.
I have to.
Well,
I started doing this after I read Anthony Pohl's Dance, the Music of Time, and as you probably know, he keeps bringing characters back, and they recur more than they do in my work, but that's because he's writing about upper-class British society between, well, I think probably start
about the time of the First World War.
I'm not sure about this.
But anyway, he's writing about a smaller world than the one I live in.
But in real life, you've probably noticed by now, people that you knew in the past will occasionally recur.
Not always, but sometimes.
So I feel that if you have a completely new cast of characters for every novel, unless, or even if,
Every novel is set in a different part of the world.
It's unnatural that you never get the same people again.
And especially if you're writing about academics and writers and intellectuals and the people I write about, it would be unnatural if people didn't recur.
So I started letting them recur.
They inhabit a very precise world.
It's not as small a world as
But it is a world in which people do turn up again.
And move in basically the same circle.
And move in the same circle.
Yeah.
And they meet each other in different circumstances, but there they are again.
Do you decide, well, I need a bubble head for this novel, so Barbie's perfect for this?
No, it was more that I felt sorry for Barbie.
I felt she was really one of the most confused and unhappy characters.
I'd ever put into a book.
And she was also an innocent.
And I wanted her life to turn out a little better.
So I thought, I'll bring her back.
And I'll see what I can do for her.
Well, did you help her to your satisfaction?
Yes, I think she's going to be OK now.
I mean, she didn't do too well between foreign affairs and the last resort.
Things happened to her.
She was pushed around by her awful mother.
And, of course, she lost her father.
It was very nice.
And when she lost her father, she was unprotected.
And she was forced into marriage with this politician.
I mean, and so on.
But now I think she's going to be all right.
And I have no intention of betraying the resolution of this particular novel, because really it's not resolved.
But you certainly do leave open the possibility, a number of possibilities here.
Well, I don't mind saying what I, because I don't do much about what's going to happen to Barbie.
She's only a minor character.
Well, Barbie's mine, but I think Jenny and Lee.
Well, there, it's more open-ended, I think.
It depends on many things.
And I didn't, I didn't want to come down on one side or the other, because I think that both
possible futures are likely for someone in her position.
It's the same way as in the war between the Tates.
A man has an affair.
His wife either forgives them and they make up and they live together reasonably happily ever after, perhaps very happily, or he behaves so badly that she can't forgive him or he
leaves her for the new woman.
And I felt that both of these things were possible.
And this book was based upon a large number of cases in my own acquaintance in different universities.
Because you, have you ever taught in a university?
Well, you will one day.
If you publish enough books, you can get, you can get a job teaching
And I'd be good at it.
What?
I'd be good at it.
You might.
If you want to take time off from one author after another, you might look around, because there are now a lot of jobs for people who teach nonfiction writing and critical writing.
There didn't used to be these jobs.
It was just fiction and poetry.
But I know that, for instance, my husband and I are going to
a university in North Carolina next spring, and they've asked him, can he teach creative nonfiction?
You could teach creative nonfiction.
That's what I write.
Yeah.
And you might enjoy doing it for a term or a year.
Yeah, because I use a lot of interviews.
I also could teach the use of the interview.
You could teach how to interview.
How to review books.
And what I would do is give the kids proofs of books that nobody's reviewed yet.
Yeah, that would be interesting.
And everyone gets a different book.
And let's see.
Or maybe...
one book to two people, so we'll see what they did.
I don't know what the possibilities are in this area, but I know there are possibilities.
I'd like to work with smart kids, you know, graduate students.
Anyway, let's put it.
Anyway, so what I was saying was, one reason I wrote The War Between the Takes is because
I knew of many cases in which professors had become involved with graduate students, or in one case with a much younger faculty, beginning faculty member.
It's usually male with a younger female, isn't it?
Yes, almost always.
I don't think I know, certainly at that time I didn't know of any other cases.
But it's because you have a world in which there are many young, attractive
admiring women, which you don't get in most professions.
Or if you do, as with doctors and nurses, there isn't such an overbalance on one side.
I mean, there are many, many more students than there are professors, but there are not that many more nurses than there are doctors, not these days anyway.
And many nurses, of course, are over 25, and they have their own families, you know.
So it's an occupational hazard of professors.
And this was in the 60s when suddenly the permissive society came in and you were supposed to express your individuality or follow your bliss or whatever, however you wanted to put it.
And the result was that in many universities I knew about, this thing happened.
And so I thought this would be a good subject for a book.
Why does this happen?
What's the result of it?
And, of course, the problem was that in some cases, say I knew somewhere between five and ten cases of this happening.
And in about half the cases, the couple made up.
They went on.
To look at the now, you'd never know that this had happened.
It was just a blip on the screen.
In about the other half, I don't know exactly 50-50, but more or less, the husband left the wife of the graduate student.
So I felt at the end I couldn't come to a decision.
I couldn't say it's going to go this way or that way.
So you haven't decided whether or not she even likes her husband anymore, whether she'll... Well, I wanted to leave it open because...
In real life, I saw it going both ways.
This novel, and I think maybe you'll, I hope you'll agree, but it seems to me that all your novels can only be written at a time, at the time when they were written.
Would you agree with that?
I mean, you talked about, you know, the affair, and then it takes with an earlier novel that was a man and a woman.
I don't think that you could have used this premise 20 years ago.
No, I don't think you could, because this kind of relationship would have,
been thought to be extremely strange and shocking.
But not today.
Not today.
I mean, I assume that probably there were these relationships, but they didn't emerge and they weren't so easily accepted.
In fact, the relationship here causing
The disquietude is that between Jenny and her husband.
Yeah.
This Victorian woman walking anachronism kind of a thing.
And I don't think you're judging that.
No, in fact, one of, I mean, there were many motives for writing this, but one was, I feel that, say, 50 years ago, let alone 100 years ago, a woman was criticized if she wanted anything more than a husband and kids.
You know, if you were married, you had small children, and you didn't spend practically all your time with them, there was something wrong with you.
Now, if you have a husband and kids, and you don't want to go to work 40 hours a week and exhaust yourself, there's something wrong with you.
You know, this commercial pressure and social pressure on women...
to have a career, a career independent of their husband.
And I believe that both options should be available for a woman.
A woman should be able to stay home with her kids if that's what she wants to do, and she should be able to go out to work if that's what she wants to do.
And I feel that women like Jenny are taking a lot of flack these days.
Women who's
principal interest is their family, or women who work with their husbands, like your wife, you know?
So I wanted to speak up for women like this.
In fact, I couldn't do what I knew about my wife.
In fact, I wouldn't do it.
Today, she's sending out photographs, for instance, to all our newspapers, photographs of the authors.
If I had to do that, forget it.
And very often, it's much different
more interesting, exciting, and pleasant life that she will have doing this than if she had to get on a subway and go to some large corporation in Boston.
Well, what she's doing with me is we've traveled to Italy.
We've run all the great libraries in Italy.
She interviewed Umberto Eco with me, had questions for Umberto Eco.
She interviewed Father Boyle with me.
you know been all over the world working on this new book together and we get together we have our conferences like she picks up things that totally get by yeah it's wonderful especially her takes on women and on men i have to say she has a sense of i'm more i'm usually i'm very good at detail but she's picking up nuances that that well you're probably both picking up things and you you compliment each other but anyway i i feel that what jenny does is is worthwhile and the fact that she doesn't want credit for it is perfectly
reasonable.
I mean, not everybody wants to be a public name.
Some people hate to have a public name.
Well, I offered her to do a byline on her children's book review.
I wanted it.
I said, you're doing all the work.
I mean, she said, but you're the star.
You're the one they know that goes out under your name.
I don't need the byline.
She loves the reviews.
They give us a full page in Orlando, blah, blah, blah.
And she said, my pride is in seeing the children's books done properly.
Oh, that's cool.
Yeah, I mean,
Not everybody needs to have a public persona.
An ego for them.
Well, no.
I mean, I'm sure she has an ego because everybody's got it.
But I feel that Jenny is happier not having to perform as a public figure.
She values her privacy, really.
We were talking about books being appropriate for their times.
And I don't know the word corpus.
Some writers...
who don't like to discuss it.
They say, well, that's for the critics to determine after I'm no longer writing.
But I think in your case, it is a body of work.
Let's hope so.
But that probably really would behoove the reader to know.
I mean, we can pick this book up and read it as certainly it's intended to be read as a self-contained unit, but it certainly would help to know the provenance of some of these characters and...
Readers who read all my books enjoy picking up references.
It has a kind of crossword puzzle or, let's say, treasure hunt aspect, which they enjoy.
Is it a game for you to play this, do you think?
Well, I think the fact that it's a game for them is a byproduct of what I try to do to make the books connected so that they're not all separate worlds, but they're more
like real life.
So it is one fictive world for you then?
Yeah, I think so.
I did an interview here with Nadine Gordemar a couple years ago, she was in Cambridge, and she said, it's very interesting, she saw all of her books and she compared it with walking into a room where there's a statue, a piece of sculpture, and walking around and looking at the same piece of sculpture from a different perspective, from a different angle, and she compared all of her books as basically doing
a different look at the same piece of sculpture.
I don't mean to, you know, bring Nadine into this particular... That's interesting, though it's not the metaphor I would have chosen.
I might have chosen that metaphor for her work, but not for my own.
Okay, so you're anticipating my question.
How do you see your different books, not as different aspects of... Well, for me, the world is not like a static piece of sculpture.
It changes.
Places change.
People change.
And therefore, I wouldn't use the metaphor of walking around a fixed object.
What would you use?
I don't know.
You also would agree, though, that there are continuing threads in your work, though.
Sure.
That's true.
But one thing I want my books to do, as you've suggested, is to have something to say about the way people
the social and intellectual world changes.
I mean, for instance, just in a very simplistic way, in my first novel, none of the women have jobs.
They don't even consider that they might have jobs.
This is in love and friendship.
Nobody ever says, how come you have no job?
The only person in the book, woman in the book, who has a job is a
a minor character who works in a bank, and a minor character who's a waitress.
I mean, that's scarcely mentioned, but they're unmarried young women.
And isn't it interesting here, the first job that Jenny has had in 25 years is working as a clerk.
That's right.
For scale, for minimum wage, basically.
Yes, she does.
I understand, but it's her first job.
That's right.
And we're making, it's harking back to 1962.
But I mean, even in,
In 1960, even the women who have no children, oh, there's a cleaning woman, too.
Working-class women have jobs in Apple, but middle-class women, whether or not they have children, have no jobs.
Nobody seems to say to them, hey, how come you got no job?
But as time goes on, my female characters begin to have part-time jobs, and then they have full-time jobs.
You know, there's a quote I did pick up from, in fact, a couple of pieces I knew, and it goes basically like this.
In my novels, the heroine has something in common with me, but none of them are me.
Is that consistent here, too?
Oh, yeah.
I think that I put a little bit of myself into all of them, but as different bits, you know, depending on what was needed.
So that applies here, but it would be a mistake to look for you in the novel, though.
Well, I think here I'm more diffusely distributed.
Ah, good question.
I think that in a way, some of, in a way, I'm like the woman in her 80s, Molly, who, although very, very slightly, but
Her thoughts about getting old, about wanting to go on living because she's so fascinated by the lives of her friends and her children and her grandchildren, although her life has become fairly static.
And she doesn't want to die because life is so interesting.
I'm familiar with that.
I think that some of the thoughts that my hero, Wilkie, has about retirement have to do with thoughts I've had about how when you retire, you're no longer part of the main scene.
You're no longer, you know, this remark, he has a terrible lecture agent who says to him, let's face it, you're no longer the flavor of the month.
This is something that somebody, not my lecture agent, I hasten to say, said to me, you know.
So you can't help but put a bit of yourself.
I don't think there's much of me in Jenny, however.
Do you have a sense of your reader who you're writing for?
No.
Although I, from giving readings, I realized that
I do have a kind of reader.
My readers tend to be over 30, if you'd expect.
They tend to be people who read a lot.
Gender?
They're more women than men, of course.
But women read more novels anyway than men.
Women read more novels anyway.
But I don't have a sense of a specific reader.
Do you have a reader in mind when you're writing?
No, not really.
I don't think I do.
So you're writing for yourself?
Well, yes, I mean, I suppose in a very vague way, I think of everybody I know as a potential leader.
I did an interview with Penelope Fitzgerald, in fact, the only one in the U.S.
I did her six days before she went, and I was in London.
Oh, yeah?
I liked that story everywhere.
She's quite an interesting woman.
I don't know her.
She has to know not only the first paragraph, but the last paragraph and the title before she starts.
That's nice, but if I had that requirement, I'd never write anything.
I guess what I'm leading to is serendipity is very important for you.
Is it an exploration for you as you go along?
Yeah, I always begin by making pages and pages of notes.
I usually begin with a theme or something.
observed in the world, and then I start making notes about it.
Who might the characters be?
Where might the thing take place?
And I develop all these things.
I couldn't, but I don't try to think what the words will be of the beginning or the end, or what the title will be, because the book will change as I'm writing it.
And is it fun for it to change?
Oh, yes.
I mean, that's one of the attachments.
You suddenly say, wait, I could...
This could happen, or why not that, you know?
For instance, in the last resort, I wanted there to be a campaign to save something.
First I thought, well, it'll be dolphins.
But then I was in Key West and went out on a canoe trip that you can go to.
uh and a kayaking trip and uh saw a manatee in the water just like uh they do in the book and i thought well manatee would be better because uh it's a kind of a comic animal and it's also uh it's i mean dolphins have a a lot of support everybody knows knows about dolphins and loves dolphins and and this would be something
new and more unusual and at the same time more comical because it would be a little bit like my hero and a little bit like Barbie, you know, so that he thinks that she looks like a manatee and she thinks that he looks like a manatee.
You know, in the few reviews that I've read so far, they all seem to get to the affair between the two women right away, but
If you read those reviews, that's really not what happens in this novel.
It's not the fact.
To me, to write this, that doesn't happen until well towards the end of the book.
No, it's not the central theme.
It's not the central theme.
It disturbs me to read that.
Because it's something I've never done, for a good reason that I don't have any experience in this area, only though I've had friends who've had similar... But that's, you know, the point is you've never felt moved to write about it before.
That's all I've said.
Well, no, it wasn't...
I'm commenting, I guess, on the reviews of it.
That's right.
This is a new thing.
I guess that's it.
But it isn't what I started with when I wanted to write the novel.
It came about partly because in my last novel there was a minor character who was a not terribly nice lesbian.
And I got letters from some lesbians I know, which were quite hurt.
And they said, how could you do this to us?
So I said, well, maybe that's right.
I should have put in a nice lesbian in there.
So you do listen to your readers, don't you?
What?
You do listen to your readers, then.
If they're friends, I certainly... You pay attention to their concerns.
Oh, sure I do.
Even if they're not... Even if I don't know them, I sometimes... I thought about this, but of course, reappears in my last novel, but she has a minor part in it.
Not much is made of her sexuality, if anything.
So there was that.
More important than that, and something that I thought about earlier than that, is I wanted Jenny to become involved with someone who wouldn't find her husband more attractive than her.
I mean, one of her problems is that he's such a famous, rather glamorous media figure.
I mean, this is a problem that you and your wife don't have, and that you're not on, I mean, you're not constantly on television, and they're not, and maybe you are.
What?
I've been on C-Sprat a couple of times.
Yeah, but you know what I mean?
I know exactly what you mean.
I'm not a media.
He's made, he has become, will he?
A personality.
He's, you know, he's, he's.
He's bigger than the sum of his works, basically.
Yes, and he's.
And he's famous for having climbed mountains and gone, you know, and all.
So anyway, one of the things that Jenny has to complain about in a very quiet way is that she meets people, and they really partly want to know her because then they can get to know her famous husband.
Except Jerry here wants to get to know her, and he's kind of a... Yeah, well, I mean, or else there are men who want to take her away from
I mean, I don't think he's the first man who would like to scoop her up because she's such a good deal for a writer.
But if it's not that, lots of the women she writes, her friends are really awed by her husband and they want to meet him.
And I wanted her to become friends with somebody who had no interest in her husband.
An interest in her.
And instead was deeply interested in her.
Because that's one of the wonderful, one of the attractive qualities of Lee for her is that, as she says, Lee is my friend, you know.
And I think this is something that happens to the wives of celebrities, or maybe even the husbands of celebrities, I suppose, the Hollywood stars, is that they're never sure that they're light for themselves.
I've heard it suggested that this is a bittersweet book.
Would you say you write hopeful books?
Are your books hopeful?
Well, they're more hopeful than a lot of books I read, yeah.
But then I think I'm a fairly optimistic person, but my life has been very fortunate, you know, so it's natural.
So you have an optimistic outlook that resonates in the body of work.
I've read also, well, let's dispense with Jerry first.
Is he a caricature?
Is he a Robert Blight?
Well, I mean, he appears in an earlier book called Real People about an artist colony, and he's kind of an artificial construct in that he's a poet who's gone through different phases.
At one point, he's a beat poet, and...
Now he's... But he's written this book, which has identified him.
Yeah, yeah.
Now he's a sort of environmentalist poet.
I mean, I... And he... I say in the book that he... Whatever some other poet does, he wants to do it too.
And this a lot... That's a wonderful one.
Yeah.
But you see, this is good because this means that he can reappear in this book as a kind of Robert Bly poet, even though he was a different...
But you don't dislike him.
Oh, no.
I'm fine with him.
I mean, he really believes in literature.
He really believes in the environment.
And he's just a little bit childish.
Some poets are like that.
I don't know if you'll be familiar with him.
You probably haven't interviewed as many poets.
From my column I have, because I've interviewed Donald Hall and Stanley Kunitz.
Stanley Kunitz is a very grown-up poet.
Very grown-up poet.
Don Hall, he's a wonderful guy and a very good poet.
But he is slightly not as grown up as some people.
Oh, please don't put that in.
Enough bad things happen to him.
I've never embarrassed anyone.
These are 800-word stories.
I mean, I've known him since college, of course.
And I like him.
But I do think he grew up a little more slowly than some people.
So did Bob Bly if it comes to that.
Although I think with Bob Bly,
that off the record, he just didn't know how big this was going to be.
I mean, it just swept him off his feet.
Made him very wealthy, too, which changes your perspective a bit, doesn't it?
That's true.
I mean, but I don't think he ever had the thought, I will put on a rug and some beads, and I will go into the woods and drum, and then I will become very famous.
Not at all.
I think the public fame that this brought him came out of left field, he didn't spend it.
Tell me briefly what your time constraints are, by the way.
I think I should leave in about 10, 15 minutes.
Okay, because there are a couple of things I didn't want to pick up.
Do you mind I also want to take a couple of photographs?
Sure, that's fine.
I have some papers of high-color photos.
Sure, okay.
We can go outside where there's more air.
Oh, if you did, that would be nice.
And there's a lot of stuff I haven't asked you.
I have material on it.
That's okay.
You can just pick it up from here and there.
And I haven't, and I know this through so many of the stories, there's a lot of things that they repeat biographically, which is tedious.
And I don't even see where it has any place in a story about an author, you know.
But sometimes they don't have enough material, and therefore they need to repeat these things.
Yeah.
But don't worry about it coming from here.
You did change universities here.
I think maybe you needed Jenny to be a New Englander.
Is that kind of it?
There are actually two universities in my work.
There's Corinth, which is slightly based on Cornell.
And then there's Converse, which is slightly based on Amherst.
And it's a college.
It's not a university.
Whereas Corinth is a university.
Corinth is located in a vague area, which could be... Not unlike Ithaca.
Not unlike Ithaca in the northeast.
Congress is definitely located in the region.
Maybe in the Berkshires, something like that.
That was my sense.
Yeah.
So you just, you feel, you know, one of these is right for this particular... Yes.
But we do have people that, as you said earlier, who kind of move around and... Yeah, I think that...
I think that Jenny's life would have been different if her husband had been a professor at Corinth.
That's my feeling, too.
He picked New England for her, to return her there from California, where she belonged.
That's right.
And she needed, for her to live this life, she needed a smaller, more isolated environment.
She might have maybe emerged in a big university.
Yes, I think there would have been more for her to do, she would have had,
different kinds of friends.
I mean, I don't know for sure, but it felt right for her to be at a small New England college.
A general comment.
Is there still for you a comment in 1998 about the relevance of a literary novel in this day and age?
Do you have a thought on that for me?
Well, I mean, people are still writing them, and people are still reading them in great numbers, you know?
In great numbers?
Well, yes.
I mean,
I mean, look at the sales of some really good novels.
Bob Stone just made the bestseller.
Oh, good, did he?
I'm so delighted, and so will he be.
He was at Alfred Kazin's, he picked him number one in his pantheon of living.
Oh, that's very nice.
Does Bob know this?
I mentioned that to him, yeah.
That's good, yeah.
and and i said who else well of course he does deal with holocaust issues to it really yeah it means a lot it meant a lot to him meant a lot but he loves stone and and i'm not looking for people's favorite authors but uh when i interviewed harold bloomby was quoting philip rock who believes that there are perhaps only 50 000 serious readers in the world or the united states would you do subscribe to that
which we call a serious reader?
Well, without a count, which we say it's a finite, small number.
If I were to tell you that the census tells us that the average American reads no more than 17 minutes of a book a day.
Well, that's—but the thing is, I think he's wrong, because I think that there are people who may not read the way you read or I read, but, for instance, I have—one of my sons is—works for digital computers.
And he and his friends, occasionally, through some accident, a book will come into their life.
And they'll read it seriously.
Same as two of my two other sons, neither of them in the university.
But occasionally they'll read something.
They'll hear about it.
They'll read it.
It might be something that's very famous, like Cold Mountain.
And they'll say, hey, I just read this wonderful book.
So I think that there are people that we don't think of as serious readers who occasionally read seriously.
Okay.
And then could you give me a brief comment about your continuing interest in children's literature and why this is what you teach at Cornell, in addition to other things.
I mean, you teach folklore and writing, I guess, as well.
But children's literature has been a continuing interest for you.
When I started to teach, I still had fairly young children.
And I was interested in...
the books they read and the books they liked.
Also, when I started to teach, I was a junior member of the department, and when I wanted to teach a literature course, all the other writers that I would have liked to teach belonged to someone else.
I mean, I couldn't teach modern British fiction because somebody was teaching that.
So this was a place where I could invent a course of my own.
And I also believe that good children's books are just as good as good adult books.
That's a quote you can be sure that will show up in this piece.
Yeah, but it's true.
I think that, I mean, it's easier to see in terms of 19th century classics like Alice in Wonderland and Little Women, that these are really first-rate novels.
Yeah.
All I say to a writer is try to write a children's book and see how easy it is.
It's not so easy, but if you have kids?
I have two daughters.
Well, I think you either have to have kids of your own or be very close to someone else's kids to write a good children's book.
I think so.
I think absolutely.
Let's see if I had one other question.
Of course, that's not true of Sendak, as far as I know.
No, he's never been married.
No, I know he's never been married.
And I don't think he's particularly close to kids.
But his books really aren't necessarily for kids either.
Yeah, but he's close to his own childhood.
That's another part of the book.
That's exactly it.
But that's a whole other... I should send you a copy of my Sendak piece.
I think it's pretty good.
What else can I ask?
I think we've covered a lot of ground.
Okay, well, let's go.
Would you inscribe...